[ EXPLOSIONS ]
ARCHER TO THE BRIDGE.
I'M SORRY, SIR.
I HAVE ORDERS TO KEEP YOU HERE.
ORDERS?
FROM WHO?
THE CAPTAIN.
FORWARD HULL PLATING.
WE'RE LOSING
TARGET THEIR ENGINES.
NO EFFECT.
WHAT THE HELL'S GOING ON?!
BACK TO HIS QUARTERS.
SOMEONE TAKE HIM
WEAPONS ARE OFF-LINE!
CAPTAIN.
♪ IT'S BEEN A LONG ROAD ♪
♪ GETTING FROM THERE TO HERE ♪
♪ IT'S BEEN A LONG TIME ♪
♪ BUT MY TIME IS FINALLY NEAR ♪
♪ AND I WILL SEE MY DREAM
COME ALIVE AT LAST ♪
♪ I WILL TOUCH THE SKY ♪
♪ AND THEY'RE NOT GONNA
HOLD ME DOWN NO MORE ♪
♪ NO, THEY'RE NOT GONNA
CHANGE MY MIND ♪
♪ 'CAUSE I'VE GOT FAITH ♪
♪ OF THE HEART ♪
♪ I'M GOING WHERE MY HEART
WILL TAKE ME ♪
♪ I'VE GOT FAITH TO BELIEVE ♪
♪ I CAN DO ANYTHING ♪
♪ I'VE GOT STRENGTH
OF THE SOUL ♪
♪ AND NO ONE'S GONNA BEND
OR BREAK ME ♪
♪ I CAN REACH ANY STAR ♪
♪ I'VE GOT FAITH ♪
♪ I'VE GOT, I'VE GOT, I'VE GOT ♪
♪ FAITH OF THE HEART ♪
[ GROANS SOFTLY ]
HELLO?
YOU'RE UP EARLY.
T'POL?
ALL SEEMS UNFAMILIAR.
I KNOW THIS
I'LL EXPLAIN EVERYTHING.
I PROMISE
BREAKFAST IS ALMOST READY.
WHY DON'T YOU SIT DOWN?
WHERE ARE WE?
JONATHAN, PLEASE, SIT DOWN.
ALL OF YOUR QUESTIONS.
I'LL ANSWER
TODAY IS A VERY IMPORTANT DAY.
I HAVE A GREAT DEAL TO TELL YOU.
WHAT'S THE LAST THING
YOU REMEMBER?
LOOKING AT LONG-RANGE SCANS.
I WAS IN THE COMMAND CENTER
WHAT HAPPENED AFTER
DO YOU REMEMBER
YOU LEFT THE COMMAND CENTER?
WE WERE IN A CORRIDOR,
YOU AND I,
ON OUR WAY TO THE BRIDGE.
THIS WILL BE DIFFICULT
FOR YOU TO ACCEPT,
BUT THAT WAS 12 YEARS AGO.
YOU COMING TONIGHT?
I HADN'T PLANNED ON IT.
MANDATORY FOR SENIOR OFFICERS.
I CAN MAKE MOVIE NIGHT
"ROSEMARY'S BABY."
YOU'LL ENJOY IT.
-IT'LL SCARE THE HELL OUT OF --
-[ EXPLOSION ]
ARCHER TO THE BRIDGE.
REPORT.
IN THE STARBOARD NACELLE
THERE'S A POWER SURGE
IT SEEMS TO HAVE BEEN CAUSED
BY AN ANOMALY.
TAKE US OUT OF WARP.
[ BEEPING ]
THE HELM'S NOT RESPONDING.
THE STARBOARD INJECTORS
ARE FUSED.
MORE ANOMALIES AHEAD.
I'M READING
20 DEGREES TO PORT.
ALTER COURSE.
[ GROANS ]
[ MOANS ]
[ GRUNTING ]
YOU HAVE TO GET OUT OF HERE.
I'M NOT LEAVING YOU.
HOW DO YOU FEEL?
LANDED ON MY HEAD.
LIKE A SHUTTLEPOD
WAS ANYONE ELSE HURT?
NO.
QUESTIONS I HAVE TO ASK YOU.
CAPTAIN, THERE ARE A FEW
WELL, IT'LL HAVE TO WAIT.
I WANT TO GET TO THE BRIDGE.
I'M AFRAID I HAVE TO INSIST.
WHEN DID YOU LAST SPEAK
TO COMMANDER TUCKER?
STAFF BRIEFING.
THIS MORNING.
WHY?
WHAT'S GOING ON, PHLOX?
THE ANOMALY IN THE CORRIDOR
LEFT SOMETHING BEHIND.
WE'VE NEVER SEEN IT BEFORE.
THIS IS A MICROCELLULAR SCAN
OF YOUR HIPPOCAMPUS.
SEVERAL CLUSTERS OF PARASITES.
YOU'VE BEEN INFECTED BY
THEY HAVEN'T CAUSED
ANY TISSUE DAMAGE,
CERTAIN SYNAPTIC FUNCTIONS.
BUT THEY'RE IMPAIRING
FORMING NEW LONG-TERM MEMORIES.
THEY'RE PREVENTING YOU FROM
LONG TERM?
HAPPENED BEFORE THE INFECTION,
YOU CAN RECALL EVENTS THAT
FADES WITHIN A FEW HOURS.
BUT EVERYTHING AFTER
CAPTAIN, YOU'VE BEEN IN SICK BAY
FOR THE PAST THREE DAYS.
TO COMMANDER TUCKER
YOU LAST SPOKE
ABOUT SEVEN HOURS AGO.
HE CAME TO SEE YOU.
RIGHT HERE.
YOU CAN'T REMOVE
THESE PARASITES?
SO FAR THEY HAVEN'T RESPONDED
TO ANY TRADITIONAL THERAPIES.
ANTIGEN THAT SHOWS SOME PROMISE.
BUT I'M, UM, SYNTHESIZING AN
I WON'T STOP WORKING ON THIS
YOU CAN BE ASSURED
UNTIL I FIND A CURE.
TO SEARCH FOR A REMEDY
THE DOCTOR CONTINUED
OVER THE NEXT SEVERAL WEEKS.
COMMANDER TUCKER AND I
DID OUR BEST
ON THE PROGRESS OF OUR MISSION.
TO KEEP YOU UPDATED EACH DAY
IT LOOKED LIKE WE HAD A LEAD
ON THAT XINDI SHIP,
THE TRACKING DEVICE ON.
THE ONE WE PLANTED
BUT IT TURNED OUT TO BE
A GARBAGE SCOW.
THEY WERE CARRYING A SHIPMENT
RADIOLYTIC SIGNATURE.
WITH THE SAME
[ SIGHS ]
AFTER YOU TOLD ME WHAT HAPPENED.
I HAD AN IDEA THIS MORNING
I CAME UP WITH A WAY TO UPGRADE
THE ANTIMATTER INDUCERS.
WE CAN TRAVEL FARTHER
ON LESS FUEL.
I ALREADY GAVE YOU THESE SPECS.
LET ME GUESS.
A WEEK AGO.
ARE WORKING NICELY.
BUT YOUR UPGRADES
[ CLEARS THROAT ]
I SHOULD GET BACK
TO ENGINEERING.
SEE YOU BOTH LATER.
THAT MUST HAPPEN OFTEN.
I IMAGINE
MAYBE THESE DAILY BRIEFINGS
AREN'T SUCH A GOOD IDEA.
LOOKS LIKE IT'S JUST
A WASTE OF YOUR TIME.
AND TRIP'S.
I DISAGREE.
WE BOTH RELY ON YOUR EXPERIENCE.
TO THE SUCCESS OF THIS MISSION.
YOU CAN STILL CONTRIBUTE
I'M SURE YOU HAVE WORK TO DO.
I'LL BE IN MY QUARTERS.
IN THE CORRIDOR,
WHEN THE ANOMALY HIT,
I URGED YOU TO LEAVE ME BEHIND.
IF YOU HAD,
SUFFERING FROM THIS CONDITION.
IT'S LIKELY I'D BE THE ONE
I DON'T TAKE ORDERS FROM YOU.
FORTUNATELY,
CAPTAIN.
I NEVER EXPRESSED MY GRATITUDE
FOR WHAT YOU DID.
I SUPPOSE THERE'S NOT MUCH POINT
IN THANKING ME.
A FEW HOURS FROM NOW,
I WON'T REMEMBER IT.
[ DOOR OPENS ]
-BRIDGE TO T'POL.
-[ BEEPS ]
GO AHEAD.
THROUGH THE SUBSPACE BUOY.
WE'RE RECEIVING A HAIL
IT'S STARFLEET.
I'M ON MY WAY.
THIS WAS NOT A CONVERSATION
I WAS LOOKING FORWARD TO.
IT WAS ADMIRAL FORREST.
HAD REVIEWED THE DOCTOR'S REPORT
THE COMMAND COUNCIL
ON YOUR CONDITION.
GRANTED ME A FIELD COMMISSION.
THEY RELIEVED YOU OF DUTY AND
FORREST MADE YOU CAPTAIN.
I SUPPOSE CONGRATULATIONS
ARE IN ORDER,
EVEN IF THEY ARE BELATED.
I GUESS...
SO EASY TO REMOVE AFTER ALL.
...THESE PARASITES WEREN'T
THAT THE ORGANISMS
PHLOX DISCOVERED
OUTSIDE NORMAL SPACE-TIME.
ARE FROM A DOMAIN
THEY EXIST IN A STATE
OF INTERSPATIAL FLUX.
NONE OF HIS TREATMENTS
HAD ANY EFFECT ON THEM.
WHAT ABOUT THE MISSION?
DID YOU FIND THE XINDI WEAPON?
AFTER SEVERAL MONTHS
OF SEARCHING,
WE LEARNED WHERE THE WEAPON
WAS BEING CONSTRUCTED.
WE WERE GETTING CLOSE.
BUT THE XINDI KNEW
THEY DISPATCHED TWO VESSELS
TO INTERCEPT US.
[ ALARM BEEPING ]
TOOK OUT WARP ENGINES.
THAT LAST ONE
TO THE STARBOARD DOCKING PORT.
THEY'RE LOCKING ON
SEND SECURITY TEAMS.
ON DECKS "C," "D," AND "E."
I'M READING 23 INTRUDERS
HAVE YOUR MEN SET UP A DEFENSE
PERIMETER ON "B" DECK.
[ GROANING ]
WE'VE LOST WEAPONS.
STILL DOCKED WITH US?
IS THEIR SHIP
IT IS.
BOTH SHIPS ARE DISABLED.
WE'VE LOST 13 OF THE CREW.
SEVERAL CRITICAL.
22 INJURED.
THE XINDI?
WE'VE TAKEN NINE PRISONERS.
WAS ONLY DESIGNED FOR TWO.
BUT THE BRIG
WHAT TO DO WITH THE OTHERS.
I'M NOT SURE
BLOW THEM OUT THE AIRLOCK.
PUT THEM IN CREW QUARTERS
UNDER HEAVY GUARD.
HOW ARE THE REPAIRS COMING?
WE SHOULD HAVE HULL PLATING
AND TORPEDOES
IN THE NEXT COUPLE OF HOURS.
THE WARP DRIVE'S
ANOTHER QUESTION.
THE STARBOARD NACELLE'S
A LOST CAUSE.
HALF THE COILS HAVE BEEN FUSED.
HOW LONG TO REPAIR THEM?
IF WE WERE AT JUPITER STATION,
THREE WEEKS.
THE COIL ASSEMBLY FROM SCRATCH.
OUT HERE, I'D HAVE TO REBUILD
SIX MONTHS MINIMUM.
I CAN GIVE YOU IS WARP 1.7.
FOR NOW THE BEST
WE'RE NOT GONNA GET VERY FAR
AT THAT SPEED.
RESUME OUR PREVIOUS HEADING.
DISMISSED.
HOW CAN WE KEEP GOING
WITH ONE WARP ENGINE?
THERE'S NO OTHER OPTION.
WHAT IN THE WORLD
WERE YOU THINKING
WHEN YOU RAMMED THAT SHIP?
I CHOSE THE LOGICAL COURSE
OF ACTION.
SINCE THE CAPTAIN GOT SICK,
ONE WRONG TURN AFTER ANOTHER.
THIS MISSION'S TAKEN
I'VE ACTED IMPROPERLY,
IF YOU BELIEVE
I SUGGEST YOU CONTACT
ADMIRAL FORREST.
YOU SAID WE EVENTUALLY
FOUND THE WEAPON.
HOW COULD WE MANAGE THAT
WITHOUT WARP ENGINES?
THE XINDI CONSTRUCTED THE PROBE.
WE LOCATED THE FACILITY WHERE
ALREADY BEEN DEPLOYED.
BUT IT HAD
EARTH?
DESTROYED.
AT YOUR HOMEWORLD.
THEY DIDN'T STOP
HUMAN OUTPOST THEY COULD FIND.
THEY ATTACKED EVERY
MARS.
ALPHA CENTAURI.
VEGA COLONY.
ALL WERE DESTROYED.
[ INHALES SHARPLY ]
HOW MANY OF US ARE LEFT?
LESS THAN 6,000.
NO.
WE'RE ON THE FIFTH PLANET
IN THE CETI ALPHA SYSTEM.
IT'S FAR FROM THE EXPANSE.
WHAT HAPPENED TO THE CREW?
ARE STILL ABOARD THE SHIP.
MOST OF THEM
PATROLLING THIS SYSTEM.
IT'S IN ORBIT,
HOW DID...
...ALL THESE PEOPLE GET HERE?
FROM HUMAN COLONIES REALIZED
SURVIVORS
THEY NEEDED A PLACE
TO TAKE REFUGE.
HEADED FOR THIS SYSTEM.
SEVERAL CONVOYS
ONE OF THEM WAS LED
BY ENTERPRISE.
[ BEEPING ]
THERE'S A SHIP APPROACHING
AT HIGH WARP.
IT'S VULCAN.
[ BEEPING ]
THEY'RE HAILING US.
AMBASSADOR.
I NEED TO SPEAK WITH YOU,
T'POL.
[ DOOR CHIMES ]
COME IN.
DOESN'T SUIT YOU, CAPTAIN.
THAT UNIFORM
I DOUBT YOU TRAVELED ALL THIS
WAY TO CRITICIZE MY ATTIRE.
I WANT YOU TO RETURN WITH ME
TO VULCAN.
UNDER YOUR AUTHORITY.
I'M NO LONGER
IT'S NOT AN ORDER.
IT'S A REQUEST.
FOR YOUR OWN SAFETY.
TWO WEEKS AGO THE HIGH COMMAND
RECEIVED A DISTRESS CALL
FROM THE EARTH CONVOY
IN THE MUTARA SYSTEM.
OUR SHIPS REACHED THEM,
BY THE TIME
BUT A FIELD OF DEBRIS.
THEY FOUND NOTHING
THE WEAPON SIGNATURES
WERE XINDI.
EVEN IF YOUR SHIPS DO MANAGE
TO REACH CETI ALPHA,
IT'S MOST LIKELY YOU'LL FIND
AN ARMADA WAITING FOR YOU.
WE'RE PREPARED TO CONFRONT THEM.
IT WAS A MISTAKE ORDERING YOU
TO LEAVE ENTERPRISE.
AN IMPULSIVE DECISION.
IT FORCED YOU TO MAKE
IF YOU RETURN WITH ME NOW,
THE HIGH COMMAND IS PREPARED
TO REINSTATE YOUR RANK.
I WON'T LEAVE THEM.
THEM OR HIM?
THERE ARE SPECIALISTS ON VULCAN
THAT CAN HELP ARCHER.
YOU'D TAKE HIM AS WELL?
IF YOU RETURN TO VULCAN.
YOU OWE THE HUMANS NOTHING.
THEY CHOSE TO LEAVE EARTH
BEFORE THEY WERE READY.
IF THEY'D ACCEPTED OUR COUNSEL,
WOULD HAVE BEEN AVOIDED.
THIS TRAGEDY
WE COULD HAVE SAVED THEM.
HOW?
WE HELD BACK THEIR WARP PROGRAM
FOR 100 YEARS.
A POLICY WHICH YOU SUPPORTED.
IF WE WOULD HAVE HELPED THEM
DEVELOP FASTER SHIPS,
BETTER DEFENSES...
ARCHER IS CLOUDING YOUR LOGIC.
YOUR EMOTIONAL ATTACHMENT TO
WE'LL BE WITHIN RANGE
FOR ANOTHER 30 HOURS,
SHOULD YOU RECONSIDER.
[ DOOR CHIMES ]
COME IN.
DID THINGS GO WELL
WITH THE VULCANS?
HOW DID YOU KNOW
THAT THEY WERE --
THERE WAS OBVIOUSLY A REASON
I CHOSE THESE QUARTERS.
YOU CAN SEE A LOT
FROM THIS WINDOW.
WHAT DID THEY WANT?
TO REPLENISH OUR SUPPLIES.
THEY WERE HERE
HUH.
I'VE BEEN THINKING ABOUT
EVERYTHING YOU TOLD ME.
I REALIZE I'M NOT FIT
TO COMMAND THE SHIP,
BUT THERE'S GOT TO BE
SOME WAY I CAN HELP.
I COULD GIVE TRIP A HAND
IN ENGINEERING.
WE TRIED SOMETHING SIMILAR
TO THAT A FEW MONTHS AGO.
IT WAS UNCOMFORTABLE FOR YOU.
SO I'M SUPPOSED TO STAY LOCKED
UP IN MY QUARTERS ALL DAY?
YOU OFTEN TAKE PORTHOS
FOR A WALK,
VISIT THE CLASSROOMS
ON "D" DECK.
THE CHILDREN ENJOY HEARING
ABOUT OUR EARLIER MISSIONS.
IN OTHER WORDS...
...JUST STAY OUT OF THE WAY.
WE ARRIVED IN THIS SYSTEM.
AFTER NEARLY A YEAR,
OUR CONVOY WAS THE ONLY ONE
TO REACH IT.
THE OTHERS HAD ALL BEEN
ATTACKED AND DESTROYED.
BARELY MINSHARA CLASS.
THIS PLANET'S
MAYBE WE SHOULD'VE PICKED ONE
BLUE AND GREEN ON IT.
WITH A LITTLE MORE
I'D LIKE TO HEAD DOWN
WITH A SURVEY TEAM
AND START SCOUTING
FOR COLONY SITES.
YOU'RE NEEDED ON ENTERPRISE.
GOING TO WANT TO MEET WITH YOU.
THE CIVILIAN LEADERS ARE
YOU'RE THE ONE TO DEAL WITH.
ME?
I'M RESIGNING MY COMMISSION.
YOU SURE YOU WANT TO DO THIS?
BETTER OFF ON THE SURFACE
CAPTAIN ARCHER WILL BE
WITH THE OTHERS.
HE'LL NEED A CARETAKER,
SOMEONE HE TRUSTS.
I CAN'T BE IN TWO PLACES
AT THE SAME TIME.
ONE HELL OF A SACRIFICE.
YOU'RE MAKING
WHY?
I HAVE MY REASONS.
THE CIVILIAN SHIPS
WERE DISASSEMBLED
FOR THEIR COMPONENTS
AND RAW MATERIALS.
TO CONSTRUCT THE SETTLEMENT.
WE USED THEM
AT THIS POINT, YOU OFTEN WONDER
IF YOU'RE THE VICTIM
OF SOME ELABORATE DECEPTION.
THE THOUGHT DID CROSS MY MIND.
MARGARET MULLIN.
WHEN YOU WERE 24 YEARS OLD,
YOU MET HER
DURING FLIGHT SCHOOL
IN SAN FRANCISCO.
THE NIGHT BEFORE YOU GRADUATED,
YOU ASKED HER TO MARRY YOU
OUTSIDE OF HER APARTMENT
ON WESTGATE AVENUE.
SHE TURNED YOU DOWN.
TO BECOME A STARFLEET WIDOW.
SHE SAID SHE DIDN'T WANT
HOW THE HELL DID YOU KNOW THAT?
OUR RELATIONSHIP HAS EVOLVED
OVER THE YEARS.
EXACTLY HOW FAR HAS IT EVOLVED?
NOTHING SEEMS TO HAVE CHANGED
SINCE YOUR LAST EXAM.
ALL THE WAY FROM DENOBULA?
IS THIS WHY YOU CAME
TO GIVE ME A CHECKUP?
YOU DIDN'T TELL HIM?
AFTER THE SETTLEMENT
WAS ESTABLISHED,
THAT I WAS NEVER GOING TO FIND
IT BECAME CLEAR
A TREATMENT FOR YOUR CONDITION
IF I REMAINED HERE.
SO I RETURNED HOME
AND CONSULTED WITH SOME OF
THE FINEST NEUROSURGEONS
AND QUANTUM THEORISTS
ON DENOBULA.
MY COLLEAGUES BELIEVED
TO DESTROY THESE PARASITES,
THERE WAS NO WAY
IN A SUBSPACE IMPLOSION.
SHORT OF VAPORIZING YOU
THEY ASSURED ME THE TECHNOLOGY
TO DO WHAT WAS REQUIRED
DID NOT EXIST.
AND, UH, THEY WERE CORRECT.
IT TOOK ALMOST A DECADE
TO DEVELOP.
TO PUT IT TO THE TEST.
BUT NOW I'M READY
THE PROCEDURE REQUIRES
LEVELS THAT CAN ONLY BE PRODUCED
TREMENDOUS AMOUNTS OF ENERGY
OF A WARP-POWERED STARSHIP.
IN THE REACTOR
WE'RE GOING TO ENTERPRISE.
[ BLOWS WHISTLE ]
IT'S GOOD TO SEE YOU, SIR.
CAPTAIN TUCKER.
TO CALL ME "SIR" ANYMORE.
I DON'T THINK YOU NEED
OLD HABITS.
FOR THE LOW LIGHTING.
I APOLOGIZE
WE'RE RUNNING ON RESERVE POWER.
ANTIMATTER'S AT A PREMIUM
THESE DAYS.
SINCE YOU TOOK COMMAND?
HOW LONG HAS IT BEEN
NINE YEARS.
I'VE, UH, GOT SOME PEOPLE
WHO'D LIKE TO SAY HELLO.
YOU'RE LOOKING WELL, SIR.
[ CHUCKLES ]
THANK YOU.
COMMANDER, IS IT?
BEEN PROMOTED TO CAPTAIN.
ACTUALLY, I'VE JUST
THE INTREPID FROM RAMIREZ.
MALCOLM'S TAKING OVER
DID EVERYONE GET THEIR OWN SHIP
WHILE I WAS GONE?
NOT EVERYONE, SIR.
HOSHI.
THERE'S A RECEPTION
IN THE MESS HALL.
IF YOU'RE FEELING UP TO IT.
A VISIT TO ENGINEERING
MAY BE IN ORDER FIRST.
I'LL BE USING A HIGHLY FOCUSED
ANTIPROTON BEAM
TO ERADICATE THE PARASITES.
WITH THIS CLUSTER TODAY.
WE'LL START
ALL OF THEM AT ONCE?
WHY NOT REMOVE
NEVER BEEN ATTEMPTED BEFORE.
THIS PROCEDURE'S
WE SHOULD MOVE CAUTIOUSLY.
WHEN CAN YOU BEGIN?
CALIBRATED WITHIN THE HOUR.
THE EMITTERS SHOULD BE
[ DOOR CHIMES ]
COME IN.
YOU LEFT THE RECEPTION EARLY.
IT WAS A LITTLE DISTURBING.
MOST OF THOSE PEOPLE JUST...
FROM MY PERSPECTIVE, I SAW
A FEW HOURS AGO.
IT COULDN'T HAVE BEEN EASY
FOR YOU.
TELLING ME THE SAME STORY
OVER AND OVER AGAIN
FOR 12 YEARS.
TELL IT IN DETAIL.
I DON'T ALWAYS
I HOPE I'VE TOLD YOU
THIS BEFORE, BUT...
EVERYTHING YOU'VE DONE FOR ME.
...I'M VERY GRATEFUL FOR
IF THIS WORKS --
-PHLOX TO CAPTAIN ARCHER.
-[ BEEPS ]
-WE'RE READY.
-GO AHEAD.
I'M PICKING UP AN INTERMITTENT
DURANIUM SIGNATURE.
-I'M NOT CERTAIN.
-IS IT A SHIP?
IT'S IN A CLOSE ORBIT
AROUND THE SUN.
WE'D BETTER CHECK IT OUT.
LAY IN A COURSE.
INCREASE TO 800 MILLICOCHRANES.
INCREASE TO 850.
JUST OUTSIDE THE CHROMOSPHERE.
THERE'S A SMALL VESSEL
IS IT XINDI?
THE HULL CONFIGURATION
DOESN'T MATCH.
THERE'S ONE BIO-SIGN ON BOARD.
OPEN A CHANNEL.
THIS IS CAPTAIN CHARLES TUCKER.
WE CAN HELP YOU WITH?
IS THERE SOMETHING
[ BEEPING ]
-HE'S MOVING.
-FOLLOW HIM.
HIS WARP COILS ARE CHARGING.
TARGET ONE OF HIS NACELLES.
BRING IT INTO THE LAUNCH BAY.
MY SIMULATIONS PREDICTED.
JUST AS
THE PARASITES I TARGETED.
THERE'S NO TRACE OF
A PASSENGER ON MY VOYAGE HOME.
WELL, I UNDERSTAND I MAY HAVE
I'M REMAINING AT THE SETTLEMENT
FOR THE TIME BEING.
DURING HIS RECOVERY.
HE MAY NEED MY HELP
HAVE YOU TOLD THE CAPTAIN
HOW YOU FEEL ABOUT HIM?
YOU'VE BECOME QUITE ATTACHED.
IT'S OBVIOUS
IT'S NOTHING TO BE ASHAMED OF.
EMOTIONS AS ANY OTHER SPECIES.
VULCANS EXPERIENCE THE SAME
THEY'RE SIMPLY BETTER
AT HIDING THEM.
I'M NOT HIDING ANYTHING.
HE RISKED HIS LIFE TO SAVE ME.
I'M MERELY REPAYING A DEBT.
WHAT IT MUST HAVE BEEN LIKE.
I CAN ONLY IMAGINE
SPENDING ALL THOSE YEARS
IN THAT HOUSE,
LEARNING SO MUCH ABOUT HIM.
YET HE REMEMBERS
NOTHING ABOUT YOU
BEYOND THE DAY HE BECAME ILL.
IF WE ARE SUCCESSFUL, PERHAPS...
...THINGS WILL BE DIFFERENT.
THERE'S A DISCREPANCY
IN THESE SCANS.
WHAT IS IT?
I DEAL IN RIGELIAN FLAMEGEMS.
I WAS WAITING FOR A PROSPECTIVE
BUYER WHEN YOU ATTACKED ME.
FOR A BUSINESS TRANSACTION.
YOU PICKED AN ODD PLACE
WE DIDN'T FIND ANY CARGO.
WE SEARCHED YOUR SHIP.
I JETTISONED IT ALL.
THAT'S BECAUSE
I THOUGHT YOU WERE
GOING TO ARREST ME.
FLAMEGEMS ARE ILLEGAL
IN THIS REGION.
IN OUR VULCAN DATABASE.
WE FOUND YOUR SPECIES
ARE INFORMATION DEALERS.
IT APPEARS YRIDIANS
WAS IT THE XINDI?
WHO HIRED YOU?
XINDI?
MAYBE WE DIDN'T GIVE HIS VESSEL
A CLOSE ENOUGH LOOK.
GO BACK TO THE LAUNCH BAY.
USE A PLASMA TORCH
INTO NEAT LITTLE PIECES.
AND SLICE THAT SHIP
KEEP AT IT UNTIL YOU FIND
SOME EVIDENCE
THAT SUPPORTS HIS STORY.
YOU'RE GOING TO DESTROY MY SHIP?
IT'S NOT YOU THEY WANT.
IT'S THE DENOBULAN.
PHLOX?
I WAS HIRED TO FOLLOW HIM.
HIRED BY WHO?!
I DON'T KNOW!
THEY WORK THROUGH
INTERMEDIARIES.
TO FOLLOW THE DENOBULAN
I WAS PAID
IF HE EVER LEFT HIS HOMEWORLD.
WHAT DID YOU TELL THEM?!
ANSWER ME!
WHAT'S THE PROBLEM?
WON'T LET US CONTINUE
YOUR ENGINEERS
WITH THE CAPTAIN'S TREATMENT.
THOSE WERE MY ORDERS.
LOOK, I'D DO ANYTHING
TO HELP THE CAPTAIN,
BUT WE'VE GOT BIGGER PROBLEMS
AT THE MOMENT.
THIS MAY BE THE ONLY SOLUTION
TO YOUR PROBLEMS, CAPTAIN.
DESTROYING THESE PARASITES
TO SAVING HUMANITY AND EARTH.
IS MOST LIKELY THE KEY
EARTH'S GONE.
THIS IMAGE WAS TAKEN
A FEW MINUTES AGO.
YOU CAN SEE THE REGION
WHERE I ERADICATED
THE FIRST CLUSTER OF PARASITES.
IT'S GONE IN THIS IMAGE AS WELL.
-THIS SCAN WAS TAKEN
-DOC --
OVER 12 YEARS AGO.
THE CLUSTER HAS DISAPPEARED
FROM ALL THE SCANS I'VE TAKEN
OVER THE LAST 12 YEARS.
IT NEVER EXISTED AT ALL.
IT'S AS THOUGH
BY DESTROYING THE ORGANISMS
IN THE PRESENT,
NEUTRALIZED THEM IN THE PAST.
WE APPEAR TO HAVE
ANOTHER SPATIAL DOMAIN.
WE KNOW THEY'RE FROM
APPARENTLY, THEY ALSO EXIST
OUTSIDE OF TIME.
IF WE CAN ELIMINATE
ALL THE PARASITES,
THE CAPTAIN'S INFECTION
IT'S POSSIBLE
WILL NEVER HAVE OCCURRED.
HISTORY MAY BE ALTERED.
WILL HAVE REMAINED
CAPTAIN ARCHER
IN COMMAND OF ENTERPRISE.
OUR MISSION IN THE EXPANSE
AN ENTIRELY DIFFERENT OUTCOME.
COULD HAVE
WE ONLY HAVE TO DIVERT POWER
FOR A FEW HOURS.
I AM CERTAIN I CAN COMPLETE
THE PROCEDURE IN THAT TIME.
I'M SORRY.
WE NEED ALL THE POWER WE'VE GOT
FOR THE WEAPONS.
IF THE XINDI ARE ON THE WAY,
THERE'S VERY LITTLE WE CAN DO
TO STOP THEM.
RUN UP THE WHITE FLAG.
WELL, WE CAN'T JUST
[ BEEPS ]
BRIDGE TO CAPTAIN TUCKER.
YOU'D BETTER GET UP HERE, SIR.
I'M ON MY WAY.
WE'LL TALK ABOUT THIS LATER.
FROM ONE OF OUR SENTRY PROBES.
I'M GETTING A SIGNAL
HAVE ENTERED THE SYSTEM.
SIX XINDI SHIPS
CHARGE THE PHASE CANNONS.
IS EVERYONE IN POSITION?
AYE, SIR.
THE XINDI SHIPS ARE IN RANGE.
FIRE!
OUR SHIELDS ARE HOLDING.
THEY WORK IN COMBAT.
NICE TO KNOW
REMIND ME TO SEND A THANK-YOU
NOTE TO GENERAL SHRAN.
ADJUST YOUR HEADING.
3-1-0 MARK 27.
FULL IMPULSE.
TWO OF THEIR SHIPS
ARE BREAKING OFF.
THEY'RE FOLLOWING US.
WHAT ABOUT THE OTHERS?
STILL HEADING TOWARD THE PLANET.
THE INSECTOID SHIP'S
BEEN DAMAGED.
-THEY'RE LOSING POWER.
-TARGET THE SECOND ONE.
THEIR ENGINE'S DISABLED.
HAVE CHANGED THEIR HEADING.
THE OTHER XINDI SHIPS
I THINK WE'RE GONNA FIND OUT
HOW MUCH OF A BEATING
THESE NEW SHIELDS CAN TAKE.
T'POL?
WHAT'S HAPPENING?
JONATHAN, YOU NEED TO REST.
-WHERE ARE YOU GOING?
-TO THE BRIDGE.
I'M NOT GONNA JUST LIE HERE
WHAT'S LEFT OF HUMANITY.
WHILE THEY DESTROY
YOU SHOULD REMAIN HERE.
FORWARD SHIELDING'S AT 52%.
[ BUZZING ]
TURBOLIFTS ARE DOWN.
THEY'VE LOST THEIR PORT NACELLE.
INTREPID'S TAKEN A DIRECT HIT.
TELL THEM TO WITHDRAW.
[ ALARM BEEPING ]
OUR PHASE CANNONS ARE DOWN.
OUR FORWARD SHIELD'S COLLAPSING!
HULL BREACHES ON "B" DECK,
"C" DECK!
THEY'RE TARGETING THE BRIDGE!
HARD TO PORT!
THE BRIDGE IS GONE.
T'POL TO PHLOX.
GO AHEAD.
MEET US IN ENGINEERING.
WE'RE GOING TO FINISH
THE PROCEDURE.
UNDERSTOOD.
WE DON'T HAVE TIME TO WORRY
ABOUT PARASITES RIGHT NOW.
THAT'S NOT NECESSARILY TRUE.
COME WITH ME.
I'LL EXPLAIN.
THE CHAMBER'S BEEN DAMAGED.
I'M SORRY, CAPTAIN,
DIDN'T YOU SAY WE COULD
DESTROY THE PARASITES
WITH A SUBSPACE IMPLOSION?
-YES, BUT THAT WOULD --
-CAN WE CREATE ONE?
WE WOULD HAVE TO OVERLOAD
THREE PLASMA INJECTORS.
THAT WOULD SEND A FEEDBACK PULSE
THROUGH THE REACTOR.
YOU'LL DESTROY THE SHIP!
AT THIS POINT, IT WON'T MAKE
MUCH OF A DIFFERENCE.
YOU TWO GET TO A SHUTTLEPOD.
THEY'RE ONLY AFTER HUMANS.
YOU'LL STILL HAVE A CHANCE.
IF THIS DOESN'T WORK OUT,
THAT'S AN ORDER.
YOU WERE RELIEVED OF COMMAND.
WITH ALL DUE RESPECT,
ONE OF THE PLASMA INJECTORS
WAS DAMAGED.
WE'LL HAVE TO REPLACE IT.
THEY'RE IN SUPPLY LOCKER "C."
ON THE UPPER LEVEL.
WE'RE BACK IN BUSINESS.
AAH!
PHLOX!
PHLOX.
-HOW MUCH LONGER?
-STAND BY.
HOW DO YOU FEEL?
LANDED ON MY HEAD.
LIKE A SHUTTLEPOD
WHAT'S OUR STATUS?
WE'VE CLEARED THE ANOMALIES.
TO THE STARBOARD NACELLE.
THERE'S MINOR DAMAGE
REPAIRS SHOULD BE COMPLETE
WITHIN THE HOUR.
YOU SUFFERED A MILD CONCUSSION.
I'D LIKE TO KEEP YOU OVERNIGHT
FOR OBSERVATION.
ALL RIGHT, DOCTOR.
YOU COULD HAVE BEEN
SERIOUSLY INJURED.
I TOLD YOU TO LEAVE ME BEHIND.
I DON'T TAKE ORDERS FROM YOU.
FORTUNATELY,
I BELIEVE YOU WANTED TO
SEE THIS.
"ROSEMARY'S BABY"?
LOOKING FORWARD TO IT.
YOU WERE OBVIOUSLY
AND SINCE YOU'RE NOT GOING TO
BE ABLE TO ATTEND TONIGHT.
THANKS.
OH, WOULD YOU MIND BRINGING ME
ANOTHER PILLOW?
WOULD YOU TURN DOWN THE LIGHTS
JUST A LITTLE?
ANYTHING ELSE?
NO, THAT'S GREAT.
YOU KNOW...
YOU'D MAKE A WONDERFUL NURSE.